In this section, you'll see how to configure portchannels, etherchannel with a lab demo, so I'm
using the same lab topology that I used in the spanning-tree section.
So we've got our two core distribution layer switches, CD1 and CD2, and we've got a couple
of access layer switches, Access3 and Access4.
I've already set up the VLANs and the trunks.
I've configured CD1 as the spanning-tree root bridge primary and CD2 as the spanning-tree root bridge
secondary.
So, if you have a look at the diagram here, you can see from both Acc3 and access layer switch 4
that they've got four uplinks, but there's only actually one of them which is active and forwarding
traffic. On both of them,
it's an interface which is facing CD1 because CD1 is the root bridge.
So I've got four uplinks there, but I'm only able to use the bandwidth from one, so I want to improve
on that.
So I'm going to create a portchannel from Access3 going up to CD1.
I'm also going to create a different portchannel from Access3, going up to CD2.
It's going to a different switch, so it's going to be a different portchannel.
And then from Access4, I'll configure its portchannels - one going to CD1 one going to CD2.
The first portchannel, I would do from Access3 to CD1 and I'll use LACP for that.
So it's going to be on interfaces on Access3 fa0/23 and 24.
And it's the same on the CD1 side as well.
So I'm going to be configuring them with the same matching configuration.
I'll then do the portchannel from Access3 to CD2 and I'll use PAgP for this one.
Now, real world,
hopefully it's obvious that would be an insane thing to do.
You would always standardize on one protocol for your portchannels and it's recommended to use LACP.
You can use static if one side doesn't support LACP.
But for the lab demo,
I want to show you all of the different protocols, so I'll do the first one with LACP.
I'll do the second one with PAgP.
Third, portchannel will go from Access4 up to CD2 on the same side.
On the right hand side of topology, I'll use static for that, so you'll see all three and we've got one
left over, so I'll use LACP for that again.
OK, so that's what I'm going to configure.
So let's start off on our switch Access3.
I'll do the first portchannel.
So that is going to be LACP up to CD1 on interfaces fa0/23 and 24.
So I'll go on to the Access3 switch if I can find it in here. There it is.
And actually, I want to show you spanning-tree first as well. So we can check this - show spanning-tree.
And my PCs are in VLAN 10. show spanning-tree VLAN10 and I can see that I am forwarding
on fa0/1.
That's actually facing down towards the PC so I show run and check the config and interface fa0/1
That all looks good.
So it's in VLAN 10.
switchport mode access facing down to the PC. So before uplinks are fa0/21 to 24 and
only one of them is forwarding now.
That's a port that is connected to CD1, which is my root bridge.
So let's put this into an etherchannel.
So I'll go to global config, interface range fa0/23-24.
is what's connected to CD1 and to provision a portchannel,
it's channel-group 1 mode then I want it to be LACP, so I'll make the mode active and as soon
as I do that, it creates a portchannel interface for me.
So if I do a do show ip interface brief
I can see up at the top there, I've now got this new portchannel interface and I need to configure
my interface level settings on the portchannel.
To do that, I go to interface ports. I can just do po as shorthand. interface po1 for portchannel 1.
And then on here I want to say switchport mode trunk because it's connecting to another switch.
And switchport trunk native vlan 199 is the native VLAN that we're using.
I would also set the allowed VLANs on here normally as well and in a production environment.
OK, so that's it. Done on the Access3 side. Let's to do it on the other side of the links, which is
on CD1. I'm going to put in the exact same configuration here.
So config t and it's interface range fa0/23-24.
Now the interfaces on both sides don't have to be the same
number interface. It could it be an interface fa0/9 and 10 on this side, and 23 and 24 on the other
side.
And that will work just fine.
But it's best and easiest if possible,
you can use the same interface number on both sides.
It just makes it easier for us as human administrators to understand what's going on.
OK, so I've specified interfaces and then channel-group 1 mode active.
I could say passive here, but it's best practice to do active on both sides and then you can't get
them mixed up.
I see the portchannel comes up.
I'm getting a native vlan mismatch because I haven't configured it yet.
So let's do that now.
So I'll go to interface portchannel 1, switchport mode trunk and switchport trunk native vlan
And I see it unblocks it because I've got the same native VLAN on both sides now, so that looks good.
So now the next thing to do is check that portchannel came up OK, so I'll do a show
etherchannel summary
And this all looks good, that's what I wanted to see, for portchannel 1, SU
which means it's a layer 2 interface and the U
is for In use which basically means it's up and it's ports fa0/23 and 24.
And they are both in the portchannel. So that all looks good.
So that was my LACP configuration.
Next, let's do PAgP from Access3 going up to switch CD2.
So get on my command line here and this is going to be interface range fa0/21
- 22 is the interfaces that are connected over to CD2 switch on the right hand side and
I'll say channel-group
Now I've already used 1, so I'll use 2 for the next one and I'll say 'mode desirable' to make it PAgP.
I see the portchannel is created and then I go on to interface portchannel 2. Now, switchport mode
trunk and switchport trunk
native vlan 199
I need to make sure I cofigured marching settings on the other side, which is over on CD2
So a config t and it's interface fa0/21 - 22, you can hopefully see the
benefit of using the same interfaces on both sides
now. I'm not really having a think about it.
I know that it is the same on both sides and I just forgot to put in the range keyword there.
So I specify a range and I'm using the same on both sides.
So it's nice and logical.
It saves me getting confused and mixing things up. And channel group,
I haven't created a portchannel in here yet, but because I used 2 on the other side, I'm going to
use 2 on this side as well, again, to keep things logical, so channelgroup 2 mode desirable.
This is also a PAgP, then I need to go to interface portchannel 2 this time and switchport mode
trunk, switchport trunk native vlan
OK, so that is my first. You're done. Let's check if it came up OK.
So show
etherchannel summary
And this one's up as well.
It's all good, too. So, first two were done.
Next up, I'll go on to Access4.
And I'll configure the portchannels going up the same right hand side of the topology.
So I go to global config and it's interface range fa0/23 - 24
on the right hand side and channel-group 1 mode
I'll make this static this time.
So it's going to be on.
And that is my static configured, I can now go interface portchannel 1, switchport mode trunk
and switchport trunk native vlan 199.
I need to configure the other side to this and link, which is on CD2, so I'll go to global config.
That's interface range fa0/23-24 and then channel-group 1 mode on.
And I see that I'm getting an error message here that fa0/23 is not compatible because of DTP mode.
Well, if I have a look at my interface, so I'll do a show run
and I can see on interface fa0/23
and fa0/24
that the settings are the same on there and the same on the other side as well.
So this is just that glitch with the packet tracer.
The etherchannel should come up in a second anyway.
So let's just complete the configurations. I'll go config t and then interface portchannel 1, switchport
mode trunk and switchport trunk native vlan 199.
And that should get rid of that error message.
That looks good.
And then if I do a show etherchannel summary and yeah, I can see that it did come up there.
Sometimes when you first configure this in packet tracer, when you do the static, it might throw that
error message at you, but just complete the configuration anyway.
You might have to give it a minute and then the portchannel should come up.
So there's the portchannel I created earlier, the PAgP one, which is going to Access3 and this is the static
that I just configured going down to Access4. You can see where it shows a dash on the protocol.
That means that is static.
OK, so that's my first three portchannel was configured.
I verified that they're up and working.
I'll do the fourth one, which is going to be another LACP as well.
You don't need to see me doing that because you already saw me configured it.
So I'll see you back here for the next lecture where we'll have a look at how this is going to affect
spanning-tree.